Synopsis
The team is investigating the ongoing murders by a signature killer who apparently has a pretty extensive knowledge of forensics and is able to not leave any evidence at the crime scenes. Grissom becomes angry when the sheriff invites the FBI to help out with the case. Sara Sidle offers to bait the killer, which upsets Gil even more.

Plot
Victim: Eileen Snow (deceased)

On the case: entire team

On a stormy night, a woman awakens to creaking sounds before she is attacked by a hooded figure. The next day, Captain Jim Brass and CSI Gil Grissom arrive at the murder scene of Eileen Snow. Grissom connects the murder to two others, those of Audrey Hayes and Tracy Berg, based on the killer's signature. CSI Sara Sidle arrives at the scene and is clearly upset to find another victim.

While processing the scene, CSI Warrick Brown finds a hair on the bed. Sheriff Brian Mobley arrives and introduces Grissom to FBI special agent Rick Culpepper, who is now overseeing the case. Grissom asserts that he wants to work in conjunction with the FBI as opposed to handing over the case. Culpepper dubs the serial murderer the "strip strangler". They are approached by a local security guard, Syd Goggle, who reports seeing a vehicle speeding away the previous evening.

In autopsy, Dr. Al Robbins tells Grissom and CSI Nick Stokes that the victim suffered a blow to the head, a dose of sodium amytol, percussive control, and an object rape with a polymer object. White cotton fibers were found in Snow's mouth and throat, indicating she was likely silenced with a towel.

At the lab, the seminal DNA from the Snow case matches the Hayes and Berg cases. The ejaculate sample contains an unknown red substance which DNA technician Greg Sanders later identifies as ketchup. Sara compares the hair found on the bed to a hair from a previous murder and finds neither have skin tags, indicating they were planted. At the crime scene, Nick finds a piece of latex and concludes the killer wears latex gloves during the crimes. He investigates a sound in the closet and finds a reporter hiding there.

Grissom attends a meeting called by Culpepper and learns the FBI is planning a decoy operation utilizing Sara, who matches the victim prototype. Later in Grissom's office, Catherine tells him that Sheriff Mobley wants her to take over the case and potentially the night shift and recommends he improve his politics.

Before the sting operation, Sara is preparing to enter a grocery store frequented by the victims. Grissom attempts to convince her that they should keep studying the killer, but she is impatient and wants to take action before another woman is murdered. After three hours at the grocery store, a man approaches Sara for a cigarette and tries to steal her wallet. It's immediately realized he cannot be the killer because a new victim has just been found stripped and strangled at the Monaco hotel.

At the Monaco, Grissom and Catherine immediately notice several differences between this crime scene and the others. Autopsy finds that the woman was raped with something covered in leather. In interrogation, Grissom confronts the woman's husband, Brad Walden, with his golf clubs, which were used to rape Walden's wife. His caddy containing the clubs is locked with a key he keeps on his keychain, which the killer couldn't have had access to. Culpepper arrests Brad Walden for the murders of all four women. At the press conference, Grissom tells a reporter the strip strangler has not been arrested. Sheriff Mobley takes him off the case and gives him a two week holiday.

At his home, Grissom attempts to study the case but succumbs to a migraine. Catherine rallies the team to continue to work with and report to Grissom. They divide up the work and go back to reexamine the original three cases.

CODIS returns an identification for the seminal DNA as Hunter Baumgartner, arrested for indecent exposure and recently released. Catherine and Grissom find him the bar where he works. He tells them he's a gay prostitute and any number of people could have collected his DNA. Grissom suspects the strip strangler has been planting the semen after storing it in old ketchup packets.

After reexamining the Hayes crime scene, Warrick has found lots of white cotton fibers. He has connected the white towels with the frequent low self-esteem of signature killers and concluded the towels may have come from a gym. He finds that all three victims went to Strong's Gym in the last month.

While inspecting the crime scene photos, Nick finds no tire marks to corroborate the story from the security guard, Syd Google, about a car burning rubber the night of Snow's murder. Grissom visits Goggle's apartment alone, where he observes forensic journals and grooming implements. He follows a trail of liquid from Goggle's apartment to a bag of trash which contains used ketchup packets. He follows the sound of a washing machine to the complex's laundry room, where he confronts Goggle, who's washing white gym towels. Grissom discusses the evidence with Goggle until Goggle suddenly attacks him, striking him to the ground. Catherine arrives in time to shoot Google before he hits Grissom with a shovel.

The FBI holds a new press conference to announce the identification of Goggle as the strip strangler, failing to credit Grissom in the case. The team celebrates the conclusion of the case by having breakfast together.
