Synopsis
Grissom, Warrick and Sara investigate the death of a deaf man who was run over by a car. However, more investigation shows that he died before the car even struck him. The team's encounters with the dean of the deaf man's school reveals a secret about Grissom. Meanwhile, Catherine and Nick investigate an apparent mob hit that leaves five dead in a coffee shop and discover that the victim they thought was the target may only have been collateral damage.

Plot
Victim: Brian Clemonds (deceased)

On the case: Gil Grissom, Sara Sidle, Warrick Brown

Two young girls run over a body, thinking they have killed him. When Grissom, Sara, and Warrick arrive on the scene, they see that the victim has two distinctive tread marks on his sweater. Grissom believes that the victim was already dead when the girls ran him over. During the search of the crime scene, Warrick finds a plastic bag with a six pack of beer in it.

At the autopsy, Doc Robbins informs Grissom, Sara, and Warrick that the victim, named Brian Clemonds, was deaf. Grissom notes that there is a school for the deaf less than a mile from where Brian's body was found. There is also blood on his knuckles, indicating that he was recently in a fight. The blood is not his.

After Grissom notifies Brian's mother, Warrick and Sara travel to the school for the deaf to meet with the school's president, Dr. Gilbert. Sara angers Dr. Gilbert by bringing a translator along without her permission and only speaking to the translator. Dr. Gilbert lets everyone know that she has a hearing aid and can read lips. Insulted, she kicks Sara, Warrick, and the translator out of her office, telling them they cannot investigate the crime if they cannot understand the victim and his circumstances.

Sara and Warrick return to the school with Grissom who, to their surprise, can speak in sign language. He is able to get into Dr. Gilbert's good graces and informs her that he will keep her in the loop during the investigation if she cooperates. Grissom finds out that Brian had filed six complaints against his roommate, Paul Arrington. Paul had recently become deaf and had trouble adjusting to his new circumstances. Brian requested a new roommate, but was denied.

Paul is brought in for questioning; he does not sign or read lips. Grissom attaches a device to Paul's head; Warrick tells Sara it's called "brain printing." The plan is to show Paul pictures of the crime scene with his brain waves giving him away should he recollect the event. The result is negative, however. Grissom writes down that he's sorry to Paul, who shoves the paper away and exits.

While checking out Brian's clothes, Warrick finds lice. Greg finds Pyoverdin, a bacteria that forms fluorescent blue dots in the blood, in the blood on Brian's knuckles. This means that the murder suspect also has Pyoverdin in his blood. Sara, meanwhile finds a large portion of a VIN number on the broken taillight left at the scene. Combined with the information about the tire tread, she is able to narrow down the vehicle, as well as it's owner, Adam Walkey.

The murder vehicle is found and Warrick confirms that there is lice in the driver's seat. A piece of Adam's clothing is also found in the vehicle's undercarriage, but is wedged in the muffler. This information combined with the broken taillight suggest that Brian's body was backed over.

Adam is brought in, where tests confirm that he has Pyoverdin in his blood. However, he is negative for lice. Grissom and Detective O'Riley interrogate Adam, who confirms that he hit someone that night, but kept driving. When pressed with the information that lice was found, Adam confirms that he was with his friend, Mark Rucker. During the interrogation, Dr. Gilbert barges in and angrily confronts Adam before being restrained by Grissom.

Grissom and Detective O'Riley interrogate Mark Rucker, who first claims that they thought they hit a dog and kept on driving. During the interrogation, Grissom combs Mark's hair and finds lice. Grissom lets Mark know that there was not only lice in the driver's seat, but also lice on Brian's sweater. When pressed with this information, Mark changes his statement - after hitting Brian, both he and Adam got out of the car and were going to call 911. Adam, supposedly, convinces Mark not to as they are young with bright futures.

Grissom then relates what he thinks happened: Adam and Mark saw Brian leave the liquor store with the beer. Since they are underage, they wanted to get Brian's attention to get him to get them beer. When Brian, unable to hear them, kept walking, Adam and Mark exited the vehicle and started beating Brian up. When they got in to drive away, Brian appeared in the rearview mirror screaming. Mark put the car in reverse and backed over Brian. Grissom tells Mark that Brian was deaf and that the two kids were more afraid of Brian than he was of them.

Grissom meets with Dr. Gilbert to let her know they found Brian's murderers. She asks him how he knows sign language, and Grissom begins telling her using signs.

Victims: Five victims (deceased)

On the case: Catherine Willows, Nick Stokes, Jim Brass

Catherine and Nick are investigating five murders in a coffee shop across town. The victims are Frankie Flynn (former owner of the Orpheous casino) and his bodyguard, a guy wearing headphones listening to speed metal, and two teenage girls working in the shop: Erin McCarty and Alice Neely. All bodies are found in the front of the shop except for Erin's, whose body is found in the back room near the rear exit.

The original thought is that the murders started with a mob hit due to Flynn's previous dealings. Dr. Robbins informs Catherine and Nick that Erin was six weeks pregnant. When Catherine wants to notify the husband, Dr. Phillips tells her that Erin is single and lives at home with her mother.

Every shell casing in the coffee shop is 9mm. While investigating, Catherine, Nick, and Brass interrogate the store owner, Brad Kendall. During another interrogation, Brad states that he knew Frankie Flynn, as he used to work the coffee shop in the Orpheous casino. He also admits that he owns a 9mm Glock. However, Bobby Dawson concludes that Brad's gun is not the murder weapon, as the bullet striations do not match the ones on the bullets found at the scene.

When recreating the crime scene in the coffee shop, Nick believes that something doesn't add up. Both Frankie Flynn's and his bodyguard's handprints are on the counter. Armed with additional evidence, Catherine and Nick believe the shooter came from the back. This is confirmed when they find a ricochet mark from a bullet, which ended up in a bag of coffee beans. They conclude that Erin was the intended target, not Frankie.

Bobby Dawson lets Nick know that they have the right gun, but the wrong barrel. However, each shell casing is laser etched with the manufacturer and caliber. Each casing from a given batch of ammo has the same marking. If they can match the markings from Brad's ammo and the ammo at the crime scene, then they have their guy.

While being interrogated, Brad admits that he had a one-night stand with Erin. After confirming that the Brad's ammo and the crime scene ammo match, Catherine lays out the order of events. Brad approached Erin about her baby which she said she would keep and expected Brad to support it. He shot Erin twice as she walked towards the back door, then shot Alice since she was a witness. Brad killed Frankie and his bodyguard after they walked in and saw Alice's body, then Brad killed the guy with the headphones to leave no witnesses.
