Synopsis
When Grissom has to go to a conference, and Catherine is off to Reno, Grissom leaves Warrick in charge of the graveyard shift's investigation of the murder of a con man. Things get personal for Brass when he learns his estranged daughter Ellie is one of the suspects.

Plot
Victim: Vincent Avery (deceased)

On the case: Nick Stokes, Sara Sidle, Warrick Brown, Jim Brass, Sam Vega

A distressed man named Vincent Avery stops a vacationing couple, Matt and Cindy Orton, on the Vegas strip. He claims he's been banned from the casino, but has $10,000 in chips he needs to cash in. He asks the couple if they can go in and cash the chips, but seems untrusting of them. Cindy says they are trustworthy and they give him a $2,000 deposit in good faith. The man with the chips says he'll give them the money back plus another $1,000 when they cash the chips in. However, the cashier in the casino informs Matt that chips are fakes. As they run out of the casino, they hear a gunshot from the nearby parking garage and a car speeding away.

Brass and Grissom arrive on the scene and Brass informs him that the deceased was running one of the oldest scams in Vegas. He would have gotten away with it if the getaway driver didn't shoot him in the head and speed off. There are no surveillance cameras in the garage, but Grissom spots fresh tire marks and an oil slick on the garage floor. The deceased also has the Orton's money, which is now evidence.

In the lab, Grissom informs Catherine that he heading to a conference in Duluth along with his cockroaches, which he will race for fun. Catherine is named the temporary supervisor, but she is heading to Reno to be Sam Braun's date at the opening of a new casino. Grissom names Warrick the temporary supervisor, as his knowledge of gambling would be best utilized on the murder at the casino. He is unhappy with the assignment, especially after finding out that Grissom didn't let Nick and Sara know that Warrick would be in charge.

At the crime scene in the parking garage, Nick photographs the tire treads while Sara finds a small film canister under a car. The canister is filled with mysterious black pills. Warrick arrives, making sure everything is running smoothly. Sara reacts negatively when she finds out Warrick has been named supervisor for the night.

Warrick speaks to Doc Robbins, who has identified the victim as Vincent Thomas Avery. Vincent was shot through the left ear; Warrick surmises that he knew the driver and was shot right after he got in the car to get away. X-rays show the bullet lodged in Vincent's skull, but they also show something in his stomach. Doc Robbins opens him up to find about 50 balloons filled with cocaine and covered in a green substance, which is likely jell-o. The jell-o was used to make it easier to swallow the drugs. Warrick questions why someone acting as a drug mule would be wasting their time on a small-time scan involving fake casino chips.

Brass informs Nick that Thomas Avery had a long rap sheet that includes petty larceny. Nick is looking over the photos of the tire tracks and notices a void in one of them, possibly from a nail. Greg runs a test on the pills Sara found; the result comes back as coal, wood, and coconut shells. The pills are basically charcoal pills that are used to absorb impurities in the body; these would help prevent a drug mule from overdosing on the drugs they were transporting. Sara lets Warrick know she found airline stubs in Vincent's shirt pocket, one for Vincent and one for a Ellie Rebecca. Warrick is unhappy she did this without letting him know. Since Warrick is in charge, he is responsible for processing the evidence. Greg makes up an excuse to leave the room, as the two get into a minor argument about protocol for the evening.

Warrick runs the prints from the airline ticket and is shocked to find that one comes back as Ellie Rebecca Brass, Jim's daughter. He lets Brass know and says he has to bring her in. Brass says that that's the job of the police and assigns Det. Vega to bring Ellie in. In the police station, Ellie spots her father. Instead of walking up him and greeting him warmly, she spits on his badge. Brass asks her if they're going to pick up where they left off.

Sara is running prints on every bill Vincent Avery had on him when he died. She notices a lack of engraving on Ben Franklin's collar on one of the $100 bills. In the interrogation room, Warrick is interviewing Ellie. She says that every man she sleeps with ends up dead. She claims that she barely knew Vincent, but was willing to fly to Baja with him for the weekend. As she goes to take cigarettes out of her purse, a fake $500 chip falls out. Despite the evidence implicating her with Vincent's murder, she claims she was at home when it happened. As she gets up to leave, Det. Vega yells at her to sit back down. Warrick tells Ellie that they need to take x-rays of her, to which she responds by flirting with him. She also says she lent her car to her boyfriend, Keith Driscoll.

Warrick lets Brass know that the evidence is piling up against Ellie, but Brass denies her involvement in the murder. He says he knows his daughter well enough to know that the shooter is probably Keith. Meanwhile, with help from Ronnie, Sara finds out that one of the bills the Orton's handed to Vincent was a fake - the words "United States of America" are blurred out around Ben Franklin's collar and the ink is black, not green. Ellie's x-rays come back clean and she celebrates by flirting with Warrick more.

Warrick doesn't think he can handle the case and wants to call Grissom, but Nick stops him. Meanwhile, Catherine calls Brass and has knowledge of what is going on. She tells Brass to be careful and not go at it alone. As their call ends, a red Camaro speeds out in front of Brass's patrol car; its plates match Ellie's. After a short chase, Brass uses the P.I.T. maneuver to stop the Camaro. He busts the driver's side window and asks the two men in the car which one is Keith Driscoll. The passenger says he was just hitchhiking and Brass tells him to get lost. When pressed by Brass, Keith says Ellie is the one who turned him onto cocaine and drug trafficking. Brass pulls out his gun but puts it back in his holster as cops arrive for backup. Det. Vega approaches Keith, who says that Brass pulled a gun on him. Keith refuses to drive to the police station with Brass; Vega agrees. As he walks to his car, Vega stares at Brass; Brass does the same in return.

Sara meets with the Orton's at their hotel pool. Matt Orton admits to knowing one of the bills was fake. He tried using it at a gas station and exchanging it and his local bank branch, but couldn't get rid of it in either case. Sara tells Matt that it is a federal law that knowingly passing along bad money is punishable to up to 15 years in prison. Sara shows the Orton's a $20 bill and notes that there is a shadow of Andrew Jackson's portrait on the right side of the bill. She lets them know that a Secret Service agent will be coming to speak to them, as well.

In the police station, Warrick meets Special Agent Beckman from the Treasury Department. He is surprised to learn that there is a federal counterfeiting case at play and that he was not informed by Sara. As Sara is talking to Warrick, Nick tells him that Ellie's car is ready in the garage and that they cannot hold Keith for more than a half hour. Warrick is angry with Sara for withholding information, and Sara tells him she does it with Grissom all the time. Warrick snaps back that he is not Grissom. He tells Sara to brief Special Agent Beckman on the counterfeit money and goes with Nick to the garage.

In the garage, Nick and Warrick find that the tire treads on Ellie's car match the treads found in the casino parking garage. The rear left tire has a plug in it matching the void Nick found earlier, proving that Ellie's car was the getaway car used in the murder. In the interrogation room, Det. Vega tells Keith that the car he was driving was present at Vincent's murder twelve hours before. It is also revealed that Keith's credit card was the one used to buy the airline tickets to Baja for Vincent and Ellie. Keith's lawyer responds by asking about Brass pulling his gun on Keith, much the surprise of Warrick. Vega says it was done as a safety precaution. With no other evidence, Keith and his lawyer leave.

Sara tells Special Agent Beckman that the Orton's are running a high-end counterfeiting operation. Instead of using the same serial number on each counterfeit bill, they are printing bills but engraving different serial numbers on them to avoid detection. Beckman replies by saying that the Orton's real identities are the Duffy's. They are from Las Vegas County and they have both spent time for interstate fraud and high-end counterfeiting. Beckman takes the fake money and vows to shut down the counterfeiting operation. Sara says the investigation is not done and tags along with Beckman.

Warrick informs Brass that the tire tracks on her car match the ones from the crime scene. Brass continues to maintain that Keith Driscoll is the murderer, but Warrick tells him they had to let him go after it was revealed Brass pulled his gun on him. Warrick says Vega thinks Ellie will eventually rat out Keith, but Brass tells him that it will never happen, as he knows Ellie too well.

Brass returns to his office to find Ellie there. When she asks if she's under arrest, Brass says that he will bail her out and offer her a place to stay. She replies that she already shares a place with Keith. Brass tells Ellie that she is better than all of this; she replies that she really isn't.

Warrick is in Grissom's office going over paperwork when the phone rings. Det. Vega is on the other end and informs Warrick that there has been a 444 - an officer-involved shooting. Vega gives him one guess as to who is involved. When Nick and Warrick arrive at Keith and Ellie's apartment, Brass is sitting outside holding an ice pack to the back of his head. Ecklie is at the scene and informs Warrick that Brass got Ellie a "get out of jail free card" and now her boyfriend Keith is dead. Warrick asks Ecklie why he is even at the crime scene since he is day shift; Ecklie replies it's because he's dedicated. Det. Vega tells Nick and Warrick that Keith was shot in the throat and the first responding officer found Brass in the apartment woozy. Ellie is in the wind and officers are out looking for her. Warrick checks Brass's gun and finds that there is one round missing.

Det. Vega interviews Brass off the record. Brass admits going to the apartment and says dispatch wasn't notified, as it was a personal visit. Brass went looking for Ellie, not Keith. A flashback shows Brass entering the apartment looking for Ellie when Keith hit him the head with a baseball bat. Brass says everything is a blur after that. Brass does not recall drawing his gun, to which Vega replies that Brass is leaving something out. Vega tells Brass that they are going to pick Ellie up eventually.

Warrick is printing Brass's gun when Nick enters. Nick states that the gun's magazine wasn't emptied and that police officers are trained to shoot to kill. Warrick finds blood on the back of the gun's grip and Nick remarks that novice shooters get their hands pinched in the slide, or "slide bite." Warrick concludes that Brass didn't shoot Keith. In the interrogation room, Warrick asks Brass to show him his hands. He then asks Brass for his badge; Brass eventually complies.

In the Duffy's basement, Sara and Special Agent Beckman marvel at the Duffy's counterfeiting process - high-end printers, multiple inks, heavy paper, etc. Matt shows Sara and Beckman his burn plates. Everything is in place except for where the money is. Cindy replies that there is no money, which Beckman surprisingly confirms. Beckman replies that "Duffy" is a code name, and that both Matt and Cindy are undercover federal agents. The sting was to put bait money in the hands of criminals and see how it leads to law enforcement. Beckman tells Sara that she passed the test and she should feel very proud, but she doesn't.

Greg tells Warrick that he ran Ellie's DNA from Brass's badge from when she spit on him. She has no markers in common with Brass, proving that Ellie is not Brass's biological daughter. Furthermore, the blood on Brass's gun did not come back to Brass, Ellie, or Keith meaning that there is still a shooter out there with a cut on his hand.

Warrick looks over the Baja flight manifest again and sees that Keith's credit card was used to purchase another ticket on the flight for Marty Gilmore. When Brass and Warrick arrive at Marty's place, he is unsuccessfully trying to start his dirt bike for an escape. Brass recognizes him as the hitchhiker he let get away when he originally pulled Keith over. Warrick congratulates Marty for tricking Brass and offers to shake his hand. When Marty shakes his hand, Warrick sees a cut. Warrick says that Marty shot Keith with Brass's gun. Brass adds that Marty was in the other room when he entered Keith's apartment. In a flashback, Brass is seen knocked out on the floor by Keith, who is worried he killed him. Marty negatively replies and shoots Marty with Brass's gun. Marty caught his hand in the gun's slide, then put the gun back in Brass's hand. Marty killed Keith to take over his drug operation.

Warrick asks Marty about Ellie; Mary replies that Ellie should be in jail for shooting Vincent. Suddenly, Marty starts to get sick and tells Warrick he took a laxative. Warrick realizes that Marty is about to overdose and tells Brass to call for a medic. Instead, Brass stands silently and watches Marty. After being told again, Brass comes to and radios for a medic. Marty fears that he's going to die, but Brass says it's worse - he's going to live.

In the hospital, Warrick returns Brass's badge to him, telling him he only took the badge to get Ellie's DNA off of it. Warrick tells Brass that the DNA results showed Ellie is not his biological daughter and that he didn't know she was adopted. Brass says that she's not adopted, telling Warrick to "call it the mailman's." Ellie doesn't know, however, that Brass is not her biological father.

Brass tracks down Ellie outside of a casino. He tells her he found out she never went to Keith's apartment that night, despite thinking he heard her in the other room. She denies ever being there. Brass says he's been doing that his whole life - thinking Ellie is there even when she's not. Through tears, Brass encourages Ellie to come back to him, but says it's too late for her. She's hopping a flight to New Jersey to stay with her mother.

In the lab, Warrick asks Sara to lend him some cash, giving her a ribbing for the counterfeiting case. She says that's funny, but replies that the shift is over and Warrick is now a regular CSI again like her. Grissom arrives back from his conference and tells Warrick the conference was fine, but his roaches got stage fright when it came to racing. Warrick tells Grissom his case went fine, but dealing with the different personalities was difficult. When asked why he put Warrick in charge, Grissom replies that whenever he leaves CSI, he will be a ghost. He wanted to see if Warrick could seamlessly step in. Grissom asks for a recap of the case and Warrick begins to tell his tale.
