Synopsis
Grissom, Warrick and Nick investigate when three men dressed as women rob a casino. Meanwhile, Catherine and Sara are sent to investigate a murder at a remote convenience store. They soon discover the two cases are related and more bodies start turning up.

Plot
Victim: Multiple victims (deceased)

On the case: entire team

During a busy day in a casino, security guards go around collecting money. Suddenly, three women enter and start shooting, with one shooting down a chandelier. When the chaos ends, five security guards are dead as well as one of the shooters. The two other shooters stole the lock boxes from the rolling cage near the high stakes tables. Brass leads Grissom to the dead shooter where Grissom removes the victim's wig, revealing the assailant to be male.

Warrick finds a shell casing from a .45, while Brass informs Grissom that there was robbery with a similar M.O. a month ago in Laughlin. Grissom guesses that the Laughlin robbery was a practice round. Brass interviews manager Max Duncan, who claims he hit the deck once the chandelier was shot. This gives Grissom a starting point to investigate - the chandelier falls, distracting the guards enough for them to be shot. During the chaos, the money is stolen and taken out the exit away from the action.

Brass interviews 17 people and finds that nobody's story is the same. Outside, a valet tells Nick that a tan car was parked with it's hazards on. Before he could call for a tow, the car sped away. Nick finds brown transmission fluid in the spot, which he notes as odd.

Dr. Robbins informs Grissom that the cross-dressing victim was Adam Brower and that he was shot in the back at close range with .45 caliber hollow point bullet. It mushroomed on impact causing major internal damage. Since the security guards at the casino had 9mm guns, Grissom surmises that Brower might have been shot by one of his accomplices.

Warrick goes over the casino surveillance footage and finds when the suspects - labeled as Red, Blue, and Black (based on clothing) - entered and started shooting. Blue is determined to be the deceased, Adam Brower. Grissom has Warrick zoom in on Red, and the two clearly see that he is a man dressed as a woman. Upon zooming in on Black, however, they see no Adam's apple or beard stubble. Black is a woman dressed as a woman among men dressed as women...quite a disguise.

Nick gets the results back on the transmission fluid he found and comes to the conclusion that the wrong fluid was put in the vehicle. This caused the vehicle to lose its second gear, meaning it probably didn't get very far after the heist. Brass and Warrick search Adam's apartment. Warrick bags Adam's clothes, as they may tell where he was before the heist. Brass opens a closet and finds wigs and bras on the closet floor.

Meanwhile, Catherine and Sara drive 75 miles out of town to a shooting in a convenience store in a remote town of 20 people. Before taking off, officer William Spencer lets Catherine and Sara know that the victim is behind the counter with the cash register emptied. They find shreds of potato on the floor, which means the potato was likely used a silencer. Sara notes that the last paying customer was eight hours ago, but that the body had just been discovered. It's possible the assailant flipped the "Open" sign to "Closed." Catherine spots a surveillance camera. Sara disconnects it and removes it, only to find that it's a fake - a nine-volt battery attached to a blinking light.

Catherine is able to find prints on the cardboard Open/Closed sign, while Sara, guessing that the suspect hopped the counter to steal the money, is able to lift footprints from the counter. Based on the small shoeprints, they deduce that the suspect could be a minor. Later, Catherine begins to get agitated as coroner David Phillips is several hours late. He arrives as Sara is looking over the suspect using a mirror.

In the lab, Sara discovers that the shoeprints found on the convenience store counter belonged to a female wearing size five shoes. Catherine, meanwhile, discovers that one of the prints lifted from the Open/Closed sign came back to officer Spencer. The prints from the register come back to Tammy Felton, the girl who tried to play Catherine a year earlier. Catherine tells Sara that Tammy uses people and that she certainly didn't act alone.

While Catherine lets Grissom know that Tammy Felton has returned, Greg summons Grissom to the lab with Catherine in tow. Greg says that he found traces of potato on the bullet that killed Adam Brower, with Catherine noting that a potato was used in the convenience story robbery. Sara interrupts and says that a fingerprint was lifted from the store's doorknob and that it belongs to Darin Hanson. Catherine notes that Darin and Tammy are running together like Bonnie and Clyde.

Bobby Dawson confirms that the bullet pulled from Adam Brower and the bullet pulled from the convenience store clerk came from the same gun, proving that the crimes are related. Nick comes in and says that they found an abandoned vehicle off of I-93 that matches the description of the one that left the casino. When the get to the scene, Nick and Brass notice a single tire tread a short distance away, meaning that the getaway vehicle was a type of motorbike. When Catherine and Grissom get the trunk of the abandoned car opened, they find Tammy's body inside.

Dr. Robbins finds signs that Tammy was asphyxiated. Catherine enters and correctly guesses that Tammy didn't put up a fight. When asked how she knows this, Catherine replies that she was killed by the one person she trusted in her life - Darin Hanson. Dr. Robbins says he called Tammy's parents and that they sounded oddly relieved, with Catherine noting that they finally know where Tammy is.

When searching the car, Warrick finds dust that he notes was also found on Adam Brower's clothes. Greg runs a test and finds that it is silica dust. Grissom notes that there is an abandoned silica mine outside of Cal-Nev-Ari. Grissom, Nick, and Warrick head to the abandoned mine along with several police cars. Grissom spots a motorbike outside of a port-a-john and notes that there were bike tracks at the dump site. When he opens the door, Darin Hanson is found shot execution style. Nick finds a .45 caliber shell casing; Grissom notes that they are now out of suspects.

The whole group sans Warrick runs down the case again with Grissom concluding that Darin was the only one in the position to shoot Adam in the casino. Catherine confirms that Darin also strangled Tammy. It seems like Darin wanted the whole score to himself, but who shot him? And why did they rob a convenience store for a few hundred dollars before stealing much more from a casino? There are more questions than answers at this point.

Warrick arrives saying he got off the phone with the Laughlin CSI assigned to the casino robbery case the month before. That CSI claims there were four robbers in the casino, not three. When Warrick goes through the surveillance videos again, he and the rest of the team notice that the pit boss, Max Duncan, ducked for cover before Tammy even drew her gun and fired at the chandelier. It turns out that Max was also working in the Laughlin casino at the time it was robbed. The team has found its mole. Brass arrests Max at his home while he's packing his car to make an escape. Catherine notices silica dust on Max's car.

Under interrogation, Max admits to helping the group plan the heist. Despite silica on his car, however, he denies killing Darin. He claims that he went to the mine to collect his money, but Darin was already dead when he got there. Catherine informs Max that all parties are guilty of murder when it occurs during a felony; Darin killed Adam, but Max might as well have pulled the trigger. Max's attorney tries to make deal, but when Max can't identify who shot Darin, the deal is off the table. Catherine remarks that there is still someone out there with a lot of cash.

In the AV lab, Archie is going over the still photos from the Laughlin heist. Archie is able to break down the photo of the unknown suspect into segments and rebuild it. After rebuilding the photo, Sara recognizes the unknown suspect as the clerk from the convenience store. She surmises that the clerk was shot way before the casino heist and the money stolen to make it look like a robbery.

Catherine and Nick visit Bobby Dawson with the bullet taken from Darin's head. Bobby confirms that it is a .45 caliber bullet, but due to the grooves on the bullet, it was fired from a polygonal barrel. He is able to narrow the gun down to a Heckler & Koch. There are only 18 of that type of gun in the state of Nevada, with 10 of them registered in Clark County and seven of those still in circulation. Catherine is familiar with a name on the list.

The name on the list was officer William Spencer. As they place him under arrest, Catherine gives her summation: William was driving on his daily route when he heard the gun fire with the potato silencer. As he went into the convenience store, he saw Darin and Tammy robbing it. Instead of arresting them, Tammy bribed William with some of the stolen cash. When William wanted more, Darin told him that it would hold him over until the next day. William's prints were on the Open/Closed sign because he was the one that flipped it when they all left the crime scene.

Catherine notices silica dust on William's shoes. Grissom asks him if he patrols Cal-Nev-Ari, but William says he does not. However, it's clear he was at the mine and is the one that shot Darin. Grissom tells Brass to hit the lights and finds a trail of silica dust leading to William's locker. In the locker's false bottom is the duffel bag with $250,000. When confronted, William says it was more money than he would ever have in a lifetime. Tired of being the guy not catching any breaks, he took action.

Grissom notes that a career cop had a price to turn bad, to which Catherine wryly replies "we all do."
