Synopsis
Grissom, Catherine, Nick and Warrick investigate when a wealthy couple is murdered at their house, which was up for sale. Meanwhile Sara is sent to a local high school where a cheerleader was found eviscerated on the football field, her organs having been ingested by her killer.

Plot
Victim: Cal and Monica Newman (deceased)

On the case: Catherine Willows, Gil Grissom, Nick Stokes, Warrick Brown, Jim Brass

Peter Burgland and his girlfriend, Janine Wood, are touring a house for sale. After having sex inside the house and trying on the owners' clothes, the two go outside. As Janine stands admiring the pool, blood drips down on her. It is revealed that there is a dead body on the awning above her.

The house belongs to Cal and Monica Newman, with Monica's body being the one on the awning. She has has a gun shot wound to her head; a casing is found with a .380 AUTO CALIBER written on it. Cal still missing. Brass tells Grissom the Newmans have a 15 year old son named Max from Cal's first marriage. Cigarette butts are found in the plants near the pool.

Nick finds a red substance on the sidewalk by the pool, which Grissom is able to identify as Red Dye Number III from the hummingbird feeder nearby. Warrick goes to check out the cabana. Nick then uses the LS and he and Grissom find two sets of footprints: a size 10 and 12. It's later determined that Cal is a size 10, so it is assumed the killer was a size 12.

They then hear a weird clogging sound coming from the pool. Grissom then says that either Nick or Warrick is going into the pool. Warrick and Nick do rock/paper/scissors for who goes in the pool. Warrick wins and Nick goes in the pool. He finds a male dead body.

Warrick and Nick then drain the pool. Catherine then brings Cal's ex-wife, Jeri, to ID her ex-husband's body. She says it's Cal. In the lab, Archie looks at before and after photos of the house (realty website vs crime scene). He and Catherine notice a sculpture missing in the after pictures of the house.

Doc Robbins's autopsy of Cal Newman indicates that he drowned. Grissom tells him that they found his hand caught in the pool filter which Doc Robbins says was postmortem. He also finds a spot on Mr. Newman's forehead. He speculates that he may have taken a bad fall, but Grissom says that he may have been beaten. No sexual assault was found on the wife, with the cause of death being a single gunshot to the head. Her neck and wrists were assaulted, which included a bruise on her hand. This indicated that she instinctively reached for the gun that was being pointed at her head.

In a sexy video of Monica, they see the broker of the house, Augie Heitz, in the background. Brass and Catherine talk to him, and he says he helps auction their videos, which is how he helps to sell houses. Warrick then talks to the pool guy, who says he frequently saw Cal Newman yelling at his son, Max.

Warrick finds a few screws from the pool filter in the pool guy's truck. He says that he removed the screws, so that he would have an excuse to go back to the house. He figured that the more he was around, the more Monica Newman would want him. He volunteers a DNA sample and his fingerprints, saying he had nothing to hide.

Nick finds a hair, fiber, and a tooth filling in the pool filter. He tells Grissom that the chemicals in Cal Newman's lungs match the chemicals in the pool water. Grissom then talks about mildew that was around the Newman's pool. Nick then thinks that the killer may have transferred mildew from the pool to the house. Greg shows that there were two sperm donors inside Monica Newman. One of the donors is Cal Newman, the other one is unaccounted for. Nick believes that Monica Newman was cheating on her husband.

When Warrick and Nick go back to the house, Warrick finds a cardboard still of the broker in the closet. Meanwhile, Archie shows Catherine and Grissom a reflection in the video of Monica. They see her stepson, Max Newman holding the camera. They then get Greg to compare the DNA on the cigarette butts to the reference sample of the other sperm donor in Monica Newman. Max's mother says that her son was at Red Rock Canyon on a field trip.

Brass shows Max and his mom pictures of Max and his stepmom naked. Catherine tells Max that they found two sperm donors on the sample from his stepmother: his dad's and his. Brass then thinks that Max drowned his father to be with his hot stepmother. After she told him that it was only a fling, though, he shot her.. But, Max's mom says that's not possible because Max can't swim. Catherine and Grissom then theorize that the killer was someone who can swim. Nick then tells Warrick that he identified some white neoprene like what can be found in a wetsuit.

Brass and Grissom then interrogate Peter Berglund. They say they found his tooth filling, hair, and fingerprints. Peter says that they'll find him all over the house. He wanted to buy it. He was everywhere. Brass says that Peter's prints came back Military: Navy Seal, meaning that he was a strong swimmer. Grissom does an experiment on Greg using mildew and regular tap water. When Greg comes back with mildew on his left foot, Grissom believes he has the evidence to go after Peter.

Grissom then interrogates Peter again and gives him a warrant to see his feet and tells him to take off his shoes and socks. Grissom then sees that Peter has the rash from the Aureobasidium pullulans, which mostly affects people of Scandinavian ancestry. Grissom then tells Peter how he did it. He put on a white wetsuit and went into the pool and waited for Mr. Newman. When Mr. Newman swam by, he attacked him and killed him. He then went upstairs and shot the new Mrs. Newman. Catherine interrogates Jeri Newman, who is also selling her house. On the realty website, Catherine is able to identify a picture of Jeri with Peter. She figures out that Jeri hired Peter Burglund to kill her ex-husband, so she can get his money and Peter could get the house.

Victim: Mandy Kirk (deceased)

On the case: Sara Sidle, Cyrus Lockwood

Meanwhile, Sara is sent by Grissom to work on a case on her day off at a high school, where a cheerleader has been found dead: Mandy Kirk, 17-year old senior cheerleader. David Phillips then tells Sara that she bled out due to trauma on her organs. Sara thinks the bite marks are of dog bites, but David says that they're human. He also says that the cheerleader suffered from the E coli bacteria.

Sara then finds out that the cheerleader was a "Soccer Bunny" to a Chuck Darwell, who hooked up with Mandy after every soccer game. She then visits Chuck in the hospital, who got sick with E coli, and she obtains his stomach contents. Greg then reads a letter from the coroner that was for Sara, telling her about PCP (Angel dust, a halogen, causes the brain to malfunction from the body), and then she finds raw skin that's possibly human. She then thinks that Chuck murdered Mandy, but on his bite plate to the teeth marks on Mandy's ribs, it does not match. Greg then thinks that there was someone else with Chuck the night Mandy died.

Sara goes back to the school and talks to another girl named Nicole, who's 18 years old and would not stop throwing up because she was infected with the E coli bacteria due to PCP. She then tells Sara what happened that night: She and Chuck went to the field and were hooking up behind Mandy's back. When Mandy saw them, she got mad. Nicole didn't know what occurred. It was like her blood was surging through her body. Her brain was split from her own body. Sara says it's called psychological detachment which is a function of PCP. It then shows Nicole stabbing Mandy with a thing from the field. She then ate her stomach and killed her. Nicole is then arrested for Mandy's murder.


