Synopsis
Grissom, Catherine and Nick investigate when the chef of a fancy restaurant ends up in a meat grinder. They soon discover a lot more went on in the kitchen than cooking. Meanwhile, Warrick and Sara find out that the apparent suicide of a young woman who suffered from bipolar disorder is actually a murder.

Plot
Victim: Petrov Samsko (deceased)

On the case: Catherine Willows, Gil Grissom, Nick Stokes, Jim Brass

Manny Saldano, a shop foreman for Meteor for eleven years walks into the meat processing plant and turns on the equipment. Before turning on the mean grinder, he notices a human arm with the hand still attached. Grissom finds the the ulna jammed in the grinder, which is probably why the killer didn't finish the job.

Catherine and Grissom note that there is blood everywhere, so their usual CSI chemicals aren't going to help them. She disassembles part of the meat grinder and is able to remove the ulna. Meanwhile, Grissom finds an earplug on the ground. Grissom says that ear wax contains a lot of DNA and that the ear plug he found is different from the ones the workers wear.

Doc Robbins has the hand propped up and tells Grissom that the victim was dead when their arm was cut off. There is scar tissue on the palm, which Doc Robbins says he sees a lot with laborers (bricklayers, carpenters, etc.). Grissom takes a sample from under the fingernails and says he will send it to trace. Although the fingers are worn to the bone, Grissom applies a ridge builder application to temporarily make the prints visible again for lifting and tracing.

Catherine and Grissom run the print and find that it belongs to Petrov Samsko. Petrov had a non-gaming sherriff's permit and was also was a head chef of DeBreff Restaurant, a five-star restaurant. Grissom realizes that a chef could get his palm burned at work.

They visit the fancy restaurant and inform the hostess that Petrov has been found dead and dismembered. Catherine talks to the restaurant's owner, Les Dutton, and informs him that there were traces of aspic and olive oil under Petrov's fingernails. This indicates that he might have been murdered in the kitchen and brought to the meat grinder without showering. Grissom finds a uniform with blood spatter on it, but Les indicates that chef's use knives and cut themselves often. The uniform, however, belongs to a waitress named Stephanie and the blood is on the back of the shirt.

Les wants them to wait until after the dinner rush before they close the kitchen and start processing. However, Catherine and Grissom notice that the "rush" is taking way too long. Grissom spots a table with flowers; when he removes the flowers, he finds a V-shaped pattern on the wall. He says the pattern is likely too big to be from a burning candle. When Grissom asks Les what the mark is from, he replies it is likely from the wait staff putting a candle too close to the wall.

In the kitchen, Catherine and Grissom attempt to talk to Stephanie, but she is still busy bringing food out to the tables. Catherine informs Ross Halpo, a sous chef, that they found blood spatter on several uniforms from the night Petrov died. The blood was found on the uniforms worn by Stephanie, Ross, and Lola Creighton, the saucier. Ross says that the blood is his; while preparing food he accidentally touched Petrov's knife and Petrov sliced Ross's finger. Ross explains that this is the "chef's code," while Lola adds that if someone gets cut in the kitchen they act macho disperse the blood to create "maximum spillage." Grissom says that the CSI team is taking over the ktichen.

Catherine and Nick examine the kitchen, where Nick finds seminal fluid and Catherine finds a substance that tests positive for cocaine. Meanwhile, Grissom finds the presence of blood around the drain. Catherine notes that there was blood, semen, and cocaine in the kitchen - the only thing not going on was cooking. Grissom opens the drain and finds something that looks like sand attached to a blood clot. He notes that the blood is not from a knife nick; it sat long enough to pool and clot. Grissom then asks to see everyone's knives, starting with Ross.

While looking through the kitchen some more, Grissom uncovers a guéridon, which is used for tableside cooking and could explain the V-shaped burn pattern on the wall he found earlier. Grissom remarks to Les that a guéridon is illegal since the 70's due to potential injuries to patrons, but the V-shaped mark on the wall is recent. He goes through the owner's log and notes that Danny Pasquale, a male model, suffered third-degree burns to his face. Les admits that they do special requests and that is how the accident happened. However, he says that Danny never filed formal charges against Les or the restaurant.

In the interrogation room, Brass suggests that Danny didn't file charges because he wanted to take care of it himself. Grissom notices a bite mark, or "fight bite," on the back of Danny's right hand. He notes that human mouths are full of bacteria and can cause infections. Brass suggests Danny fought Petrov in retaliation for what happened to his face. When Danny doesn't say anything, Grissom tells him he doesn't have to. All he needs to do is swab the bite mark on Danny's hand.

A doctor removes fluid from Danny's wound. Meanwhile, Catherine has tested 25 knives for Petrov's blood with each coming back negative. She finally finds what she thinks is blood on a knife only to realize it isn't. Elsewhere, Greg gives Grissom the test results - the DNA found on Danny's hand came from Petrov's mouth. It would appear that Danny punched Petrov in the mouth.

Grissom is interrogating Danny when Brass gets his attention. The DNA from the ear plug found earlier came back to Harold Haskins, a delivery man for Meteor who has violated his parole. As it turns out, Harold delivered to the same restaurant Petrov worked at. Brass interrogates Harold, who says he got the "meat" from the restaurant freezer and brought it to the meat grinder. When Brass threatens to tell Harold's parole officer what's going on, Harold admits that Ross had him dispose of the body. Harold owed Ross $3,000 for cocaine and Ross had Harold repay the debt by doing him a favor.

In the restaurant kitchen, Ross denies any involvement in killing Petrov. Catherine says that nobody else is talking; it's what the military calls "code red" - fierce loyalty to the man in charge. She points out that Petrov used to be at the top before he was murdered. Grissom finds what looks like wool and claims that someone was cooking something that wasn't food.

Greg tells Catherine that the red mark on the knife that Catherine mistook for blood was actually nail polish. In the interrogation room, she lines up the four female workers from the restaurant and looks at their nails. The hostess has marks on her nails. She removes one of the press-on nails and gives it to Catherine for evidence while the other three women are released.

In the lab, new lab tech David Hodges tells Grissom that the wool found is used in high-end suits. Hodges also tells Grissom that there was blood found on the wool that belonged to Petrov, and that someone burned a high-end suit in the kitchen.

Back in the interrogation room, Catherine interviews the hostess. She tells the hostess that the nail polish collected matched the nail polish found on the knife. Catherine believes the nail polish got transferred while the hostess was stabbing Petrov. For the time being, she is not charged with any crime.

In the evidence room, Grissom is testing the knife when Catherine enters. He shakes the knife and it makes a sound that nobody picked up on earlier. Upon twisting to open the handle, he finds sand, which Catherine says is for balance and precision. Grissom notes that the sand is volcanic sand, and Catherine notes that she's seen the same sand before on the blood clot found in the kitchen's drain. Under a magnifying glass, Grissom sees blood on the handle of the knife where it twists open.

In one interrogation room, Grissom presents Ross his own kitchen knife and says he doesn't believe he killed Petrov, but he did fillet him. The knife twisted open while this was being done, causing sand to fall down the drain. In another interrogation room, Catherine interviews Les, who she claims knew about the murder and helped cover it up. While Ross got rid of Petrov's body, Les burned his own suit to get rid of the evidence.

Brass talks to Grissom and they agree that nobody is talking. However, Brass has a plan. He enters Catherine's interrogation room and whispers something to her, then takes Les for a walk. The same thing is done with Ross. As both men are being walked down the hallway, they pass the hostess and stare at her, for it looks like she isn't being charged with any crime. She stares back with a puzzled look, unsure of what's going on. Grissom is watching this happen and notices her reaction. He walks up to her and asks her why she killed Petrov.


