Synopsis
Grissom, Warrick and Sara investigate when a woman who was already missing disappears while taking part in a magician's act. Things get worse when the magician burns to death on the stage. But Grissom soon discovers that all is not what it seems. Meanwhile, Catherine and Nick find evidence of murder when a rock star dies from an overdose in his trailer.

Plot
Victim: Magic show volunteer (missing)

On the case: Gil Grissom, Sara Sidle, Warrick Brown, Jim Brass

At a magic show, The Amazing Zephyr performs his most famous trick. He gets a volunteer - a woman in a blue dress - from the crowd and has her step in the Chamber of Doom. Smoke fills the box as he thrusts three swords into the sides of the box. When the smoke vanishes, the woman is gone. With the help of his assistant, Matilda, Zephyr has the spotlight focus back on the woman's seat. However, the woman is unexpectedly not there and Zephyr doesn't know how to react.

Grissom arrives on the scene and gets filled in by Brass. He looks over the chamber and finds a small amount of blood. Brass speaks to the vacationers sitting in front of the missing woman and confiscates their camera. Grissom notes that the swords that were thrust into the box are quite dull, which he says adds to the illusion. Sara tests one of the swords for blood and it comes back positive. Grissom talks with Zephyr who performs a magic trick with a half dollar, but doesn't provide any information.

Sara and Warrick process the box, but find only partial prints. Punky Dillinger, Zephyr's stagehand, emerges from behind the curtain and tells Grissom that he knows how to operate the tricks. Grissom gets in the box and tells Punky to make him disappear. He gets in the box and, when the smoke disappears, he is gone. However, he simply fell below the stage, as their is a chute below the steps. Punky tells the CSIs that once the audience participant is below the stage, he escorts them out the exit door and back to their seat to complete the illusion. However, he turned his back with the woman in the blue dress and she disappeared.

Warrick spots blood drops on the floor leading to another exit door. Grissom and Warrick follow the blood outside to an alleyway. There, they find a pool of blood with a mixture of clear liquid along with tire treads. Sara is able to lift a palm print from the exit door.

Sara tells the guys that Punky was lying about another exit and that she got his palm print off of the trap door under the box. They also confirm that his print was inside the box.

In the interrogation room, Punky lights up a cigarette then performs a magic trick to make it disappear. He admits that he loves magic and that he would try out the tricks behind Zephyr's back, which explains why his prints were all over the trick.

Greg tells Sara that the blood found in the Chamber of Doom and under the stage were a match. However, the blood found in the alley way was different; in fact, it wasn't human. The clear liquid found with the blood came back as Thorazine, which can be used for as an animal tranquilizer.

Archie goes through the photos on the vacationing couple's camera. One of the photos shows the woman in the blue dress heading towards the stage. Archie is able to identify another magician, known as Toby Arcane, in the background of another photo. Toby is also known as "The Freak Man." Grissom, Sara, and Warrick go to one of Toby's performances where he is getting nailed to a wooden X - an illusion known as the "Crossifixion." The lights go out and Toby reemerges on a catwalk behind the crowd in a burst of fire. The crowd gives him a huge ovation. Afterwards, they interview Toby, who admits to being at Zephyr's show. He believes the woman in the blue dress was a plant. Toby thinks that the blood from the box could have been from a pouch, but knowing Zephyr, he made a mistake.

Warrick runs the tire treads; they are a match to a Ford F-150. Greg tells him the human blood found matches Zoe Clein, a woman with red hair who has been missing for six months. Grissom, Sara, and Warrick go to Zoe's house, which is built close to a railroad. Warrick opens a refrigerator and finds six pints of A-positive blood. As a train goes by, Grissom sees that everything in the dining room is shaking except for some pictures on the wall. He is able to find a secret passageway leading to a hidden room. Sara and Warrick are able to find him, and they also find a blueprint of the Chamber of Doom created by Zoe. Warrick finds a photo of the Clein Magical Tour - Roy, Zoe, Zephyr, and a baby Zephyr is holding. Roy is assumed to be their father.

Grissom spots something on the windowsill. He props himself up with a clothes hook and picks up an io moth. He explains to Warrick that the eye-like spots on its wings are an illusion, fooling predators into thinking it's an owl. Just then, everyone hears someone walking around upstairs. They released the officer from the scene, so someone else is in the house. Sara eventually finds Matilda hiding in a closet.

Matilda tells them that she came to talk to Zoe, saw her door open, and decided to snoop around. She admits to also wanting to be a magician and that she and other magician's assistants never get the credit they're due. Matilda says that she knows Zoe through Zephyr and that Zoe was a plant the night she disappeared. Brass tells her that Zoe has been missing for six months, and Matilda can't explain how she saw her that night. She says she drove to Zoe's house in her Ford F-150. When Sara and Warrick go to investigate the car, they find a live black panther in the back of it. There is a lot of blood as well as needles with Thorazine. Matilda says that the panther is her pet and that it cut itself, which explains the blood and Thorazine. She says she has to go as Zephyr is performing a new trick that night.

That night, at the magic show, Zephyr performs his Chamber of Doom illusion again. However, instead of using someone from the audience, he says that he will make himself disappear. He gets into the box. As the smoke begins to shield him, the box catches on fire and he burns inside. Grissom, Sara, and Warrick are present to see this occur. They go below the stage to find a stake wedged in the trap door. It's the same kind of stake Toby Arcane uses in his act.

In autopsy, Doc Robbins tells Grissom that Zephyr's cause of death was essentially swallowing fire, the same way a drowning victim swallows water. Doc Robbins also says he found soft tissue pockets in Zephyr's mouth. Grissom notes that he heard Houdini could regurgitate keys on cue, but has never heard of skin pockets.

In the interrogation room, Sara and Warrick go through all of Toby's props until they find a stake. Toby shows them that the stake is a fake; it has a collapsible tip with a blood capsule inside, giving the illusion that he's bleeding. He says that he's been better than Zephyr for years and had no reason to kill him. He claims that all of the props on the table are fake, as is his tattoo. He even changes to his real speaking voice and tells them he's from Orange County.

In his office, Grissom turns over the half dollar that Zephyr gave him earlier and he notes that it is two-headed. He goes to Doc Robbins, cuts off one of Zephyr's fingers, and wears it himself to get prints from it. Meanwhile, Sara and Warrick find out from a website that Punky was Zephyr's son and he was the baby in the old photograph earlier. The print Grissom got from Zephyr is actually a match to Punky; Zephyr pulled a switch. Grissom notes that Zephyr and Punky were interchangeable in physical appearance like the io moth.

Grissom goes back to Zoe's house and down into the hidden basement. He find that the clothes hook he used to prop himself up earlier is lying broken on the floor and the room looks smaller than it did previously. He pushes the wall out of the way to reveal another hidden passageway. At the end of the passageway, sitting at his desk, is Zephyr. He explains that he was the woman in the blue dress the night "Zoe" disappeared. He wore a packet of Zoe's blood on his arm, so when the sword was inserted, it sprayed her blood over the box. Grissom tells him he knows that Zephyr killed his son and set up Toby for the murder. Zephyr says that Punky was better off as a prop than as a magician, and that magicians "save their best trick for last."

Zephyr is arrested. As he is going to the patrol car, Grissom has him open his mouth to make sure there are no skin pockets inside. He finds none. As the car is driving away, Zephyr is able to regurgitate a key.

Victim: Gus Kenyon (deceased)

On the case: Catherine Willows, Nick Stokes

Meanwhile, Catherine and Nick arrive to the scene of a dead body on a tour bus. The victim is Gus Kenyon, lead singer of the band Pekinpah. He has a bandanna tied around his right arm acting as a tourniquet and a needle filled with heroin sticking out of it. Heroin still in the syringe and a lack of vomit would make it seem like this was not an overdose. Catherine examines Gus's right index finger to find what looks like a bruise. The silver ring he is wearing has a red color to it. Nick notes that the tourniquet is tied off away from the body, meaning someone else likely tied it. Catherine finds an empty bottle of whiskey next to the body. The stage manager arrives and tells them that Gus has been clean for six years; it's a shock that he would die from an overdose.

In autopsy, Doc Robbins tells Catherine that Gus had no heroin in his system when he died. The cause of death was an embolism to the heart; air was injected into the heart, which eventually led to heart failure. His blood alcohol content was .31, which leads Doc Robbins to guess that Gus was unconscious when his heart stopped. This would explain why the heroin didn't get into his system. Doc Robbins also tells Catherine that the black mark on the index finger was not a bruise. It was standard black printing ink.

Nick interviews the bandmates and notes that the bandanna tied around Gus's arm was used by one of the bandmates the night of their performance. They admit to leaving Gus on the bus alone as he said he wanted to be alone. They also confirm that they were all clean; they hadn't used drugs for the last six years. According to them, Gus had bouts with depression and had wanted out of the band for some time.

Greg provides Catherine and Nick with publications and music from the band. He also tells him that he heard it through the grapevine that the band was splitting up. Catherine notes that Gus wrote all of the songs on the CD she is holding and surmises that if Gus left the band and took the songs, the bandmates would stop making money.

Catherine goes back to the tour bus and finds a broken piece of a cell phone and the phone itself. She also finds a phone book. When she opens it up, she finds a black smudge next to a name, Samantha Dean. She leaves the bus and goes to a nearby payphone, where she confirms that the phone book is missing. Nick shows Catherine a CD player he found that belongs to the guitarist, Keith Castle. There is a bag of heroin where the batteries should be.

Greg tells Catherine and Nick that he found out the band was planning a "Best Of" album. He is also able to dig up an interview that Gus did on MTV2 saying that he would never do a compilation album that one could be produced over his dead body. Greg tells him that Keith was planning the album. Under interrogation, Keith says that he snorts the heroin, but doesn't shoot it. He admits that he and the rest of the band didn't get along with Gus.

Catherine visits the house of Samantha Dean and notices scratch marks on her red door. She tells her that Gus looked up Samantha's name and address from the phone directory. Samantha denies knowing Gus and also denies answering the phone when he called. Catherine notices that Samantha's son, Brandon, is wearing some expensive green-tinted sunglasses. Outside in the car, Catherine listens to a CD of Pekinpah's music and starts looking at the CD jacket.

Under a magnifying glass, Catherine and Nick are able to see a picture of Gus and Samantha inside the CD jacket. Samantha clearly lied about knowing Gus. In the picture, Samantha is wearing a VIP badge and sitting with Gus backstage. Catherine retrieves the ring Gus was wearing from evidence, and she and Nick visually confirm that the red marks in the ring came from Samantha's door.

Catherine and Nick interview Samantha in her house. They tell her that the paint on Gus's ring matches the paint on her door. Catherine also shows her the picture from the CD jacket and notes that the sunglasses Gus is wearing in the picture are the same ones that Brandon currently has in his hands. Catherine recounts that a depressed Gus came to the house the night before to talk to Samantha, recognized Brandon has his son, and give him the sunglasses. When she kicked him out, he started beating on her door. Samantha wanted to protect her son from his father's lifestyle. Samantha is a registered nurse, meaning she had access to surgical supplies.

Samantha confesses that when Gus left, he threatened to call a lawyer and take Brandon away from her. She followed Gus to the tour bus and found him passed out. She injected Gus with air, then filled the syringe with heroin to make Gus's death look like an overdose. Catherine tells her that she would want her daughter growing up with a bad father than knowing none at all.
