Synopsis
When a raven is spotted with a human eyeball in its beak, it's up to Catherine, Nick and Sara to find the rest of the body and the killer. Meanwhile, a normal autopsy turns into a special one when the victim isn't dead. Doc Robbins and David manage to save his life, only to have him die later. Grissom and Warrick then try to find out who wanted the man dead.

Plot
Victim: Amy Ennis/Kelly Easton (deceased)

On the case: Catherine Willows, Nick Stokes, Sara Sidle, Jim Brass

A group of birdwatchers are looking to cross some sightings off of their list in Floyd Lamb State Park when they see a raven carrying a human eyeball. At the scene, Grissom notes to Catherine that ravens have been known to travel up to 30 miles from roost to feeding ground, giving them a 2,800 mile search area.

In the lab, Grissom examines the eyeball and removes a contact lens as well as some vitreous fluid. In another part of the lab, Catherine removes different things from the raven's nest, including a baby's toy. Grissom enters and tells her about the iris's color; Catherine quickly concludes that the body has been dead for less than 48 hours. They note that there are seagull feathers in the nest and seagulls can be found near lake mead. However, ground limestone is also found, and that is not found near there. Catherine guesses that the raven got the eyeball from Pendale Landfill, where limestone is used as ground cover.

Catherine, Nick, and Sara visit the landfill. With help, they are able to zero in on where they believe they should be looking for evidence. Catherine uncovers a female leg, while Sara find the torso and head, which is missing an eye. They note that the temperature under the body parts is 120 degrees and based on the time of the death, the body should be bloated. However, it is not. The body looks torn up, but they realize that it could be from the bulldozers.

In the morgue, Doc Robbins tells Catherine that the cause of death is indeterminate, but blunt force trauma could be a possibility. There is some perimortem bruising around the left eye and the limb removal is relatively clean, meaning that was done postmortem. There is a scar on the body indicating that the victim gave birth. An x-ray shows that the body has something implanted in it.

In another room, Nick and Sara are going over the trash that was buried near the body. Among the items are a frying pan, a home pregnancy test (result: negative), and a bag of frozen peas. Nick goes through mail in the trash, while Sara marks down the addresses on a map as they try to narrow down where the victim came from. They narrow the location down to a street - Storm Cloud Lane.

Doc Robbins tells Catherine that the item he was able to pull from the body was an artificial spinal disc. The doc states that less than 1,000 surgeries have been performed in the United States using that kind of disc. With the components of the disc and its angle, Doc Robbins informs Catherine he narrowed the list down to one person - Amy Ennis from Austin, Texas.

Catherine, Nick, and Sara visit Storm Cloud Lane and line up all of the trash bins in the street. They are able to find the presence of blood in six bins, with three of those testing positive for human blood. Sara notes that blood pools to the bottom and that, since there was blood on the outside of the bin from it being dumped at the landfill, it's likely the body was in this particular bin. They match the bin with the house it belongs to. Catherine speaks to Daniel Easton, who has no idea how blood got in his trash bin. He has also never heard of Amy Ennis. Daniel's two kids, Charlie and Nora, come home and he tells Catherine he has been divorced for five years.

Brass tells Catherine that they haven't found Amy's next of kin yet. Catherine points out that Amy had a kid, but Brass corrects her and says she gave birth. That doesn't mean she had a kid. They did, however, find Amy's car in the parking lot of the Tangiers. The car is brought in for processing. Sara goes through Amy's suitcase and finds some risque lingerie to go along with regular clothes and toiletries. Catherine has Greg run DNA on the toothbrush, and the DNA matches Amy Ennis. Nick fumigates the steering wheel and finds a print. However, he finds that there is no Amy Ennis in the system and that the print matches someone named Kelly Easton. Catherine remembers that Easton was the last name of the guy she interviewed earlier.

Catherine questions Daniel Easton again and he changes his story. He claims Kelly went to get her hair done and never came home. Catherine suggests that maybe Kelly left because of some type of abuse. However, Daniel says the CSIs were at his house five years prior, did a grid search, and came up empty. He would love to be given a reason as to why his wife left. Daniel says he got left with neighbors who think he killed his wife, in-laws that sued him for custody, and a loss of job and friends. Catherine remarks that Daniel didn't kill his wife....at least five years ago he didn't.

Catherine and Sara search Daniel's house, and Sara finds blood on a chair and some panties in the bedroom. Daniel admits to Sara that Kelly came back a month ago and that they "reconnected." Back in the bedroom, Catherine tape lifts some hairs she finds on the bed and the bed's pillow. Meanwhile, Nick finds disturbing drawings in a notepad in Charlie's room.

Nick talks to Charlie who says he's not surprised; his mother left without telling the family and died the same way. Meanwhile, Catherine speaks to Nora, who says she last saw her mother when she was in seventh grade. However, she never thought her mother was dead. Nora asks to sit down as she starts rubbing her stomach. When Catherine asks her if Daniel is seeing anyone, Nora curiously replies "How could he?"

Back inside the house, Catherine looks through Nora's room and finds a bottle of high potency supplements and a hidden silver bracelet. In the kitchen, Sara finds blood on the tile and a circular void on the wall where a frying pan should go. In the garage, Nick tells Catherine he found hairs in the freezer between packages of frozen peas. Catherine notes that Kelly's body showed no swelling and that her fractures were clean. She surmises that Kelly's body was frozen before it was brought to the landfill. A reenactment shows Kelly getting hit with a frying pan, hitting her head on the corner of the kitchen counter, and getting stuffed into the garage freezer.

In the interrogation room. Daniel says he didn't know Kelly was dead. He figured she just left him again. Brass relays the information that Kelly had been gone for four years, eleven months, and one week. After missing for three more weeks (five years total), Kelly's estate would be allowed to be distributed to Daniel. Brass notes that Daniel had a $500,000 life insurance policy on his wife, but Daniel says that they had a policy on each other. Brass also finds that Daniel has been spending a lot of money on expensive things recently as if he were expecting a windfall. He lays out the theory that Kelly came back before Daniel could collect and so he took action. However, Daniel continues to state that he didn't kill his wife.

In the lab, Greg informs Catherine that the blood from the bedroom chair and the blood from the kitchen both came back to Kelly. The hairs from the freezer and from the bedroom pillow also came back to Kelly. The hairs from the bed, however, are pubic hairs and they belong to Nora. Catherine guesses that Daniel did have a new girlfriend - his daughter.

Catherine talks to Nora, who says that the silver bracelet found was a gift from her father. Nora remarks that she deserved the bracelet for taking care of everything after her mother disappeared. She clams up when Catherine asks her if that's all she took care of. When confronted with the evidence that she was in her father's bed, Nora says that her father loves her. She looks down and sees that she is lactating through her shirt; Catherine shockingly says that Nora is pregnant.

Catherine rushes to the interrogation room and starts berating Daniel. He is shocked when told that Nora is pregnant. Catherine guesses that Kelly came back home and saw Daniel in bed with Nora, so he killed Kelly and bought Nora off with a bracelet. Daniel says he bought the bracelet for his wife, but Catherine is insistent they are going to nail him for murder.

Nora visits the doctor who runs a checkup on her. As the doctor leaves the room, she whispers something to Catherine. Catherine informs Sara that Nora is actually a virgin. Nora actually has Pseudocyesis, or "imagined pregnancy." When the desire to become pregnant is so strong, the hormone levels can change, setting off all of the biological signs of pregnancy. Signs include a swollen abdomen and milk production in both breasts, which can be set off by stress.

Nick enters and tells them that the two stains found on the inside of the shirt from the dump tested positive for Nora. However, the blood on the shirt came back to Kelly. Catherine confirms that the bracelet also belonged to Kelly; the epithelials confirmed it. Sara concludes that Nora is in love with her father.

In the interrogation room, Nora admits that the shirt belongs to her. However, she doesn't know how the blood got on it. Catherine tells Nora that the bracelet was a gift from her father to her mother, but Nora denies it and says the bracelet was for her. In a flashback, Nora is seen opening the door to the bedroom while Daniel is romancing Kelly. Nora starts to freak out and pops some pills. When Kelly tries to surprise Nora in the kitchen, Nora whirls around and smacks her with a frying pan. She steals the bracelet off of Kelly and drags the body to the freezer in the garage.

Nora tearfully says that it wasn't fair. She yells that she never asked for her anything, and Catherine tells her the one thing she wanted she couldn't have. Nora is arrested. While being hauled out of the room, she hysterically yells out that she's going to have a baby. Brass guesses that Nora's attorney is going to tell her to plead insanity.

Victim: Fred Stearns (initially alive)

On the case: Gil Grissom, Warrick Brown

Doc Robbins tells Grissom that the electrolyte and glucose levels in the other victim's eye were normal, showing that the victim wasn't dehydrated or diabetic. As Grissom leaves the autopsy room, David Phillips tells him about the victim lying on his table - a 35-year old car salesman named Fred Stearns who dropped dead of a heart attack. David notes that it's just "a routine autopsy." On his recorder, Doc Robbins states the body was warm to the touch and that rigamortis was not present. They find a black substance on Fred's mouth, gums, and lips. As David starts to slice open the body, it begins to bleed indicating it's still alive. David and Doc Robbins rush to revive the victim.

Grissom and Warrick visit the car dealership that Fred works at. Warrick informs Grissom that Fred has respiratory paralysis. The preliminary report on the blood work shows an organic poison in Fred's system, which would explain the discoloration around his mouth. They observe car salesman Marty Gibson hard at work trying to sell a car and forge a relationship with a customer.

Grissom and Warrick go inside the dealership and speak to receptionist Nancy Linden, who has secretly brought her dog to work with her. They show her a warrant to search the premises regarding Fred's attempted murder. Nancy replies that Fred had a heart attack and died. Grissom corrects her, saying Fred did not have a heart attack and is very much alive. Nancy brings Grissom and Warrick to Fred's desk where nothing of his has been touched. Warrick notes that the poison could have come from anything on the desk. Grissom finds an odd substance on Fred's phone, while Warrick finds something on Fred's jacket. They open fellow salesman Clyde Hinton's drawers and find super glue (the substance on Fred's phone) and chewing gum, which turns one's mouth black. Clyde is a prankster, and he uses his jokes to gain a sales advantage. Warrick gets a call and tells Grissom that Fred passed away....again.

In autopsy, David slices Fred open again and, to his relief, doesn't draw blood this time. He observes that the poison may have gotten into the Fred's system and that a stomach ulcer may have helped that happen. The ulcer opened a channel directly from the digestive tract to the blood stream. Grissom tells Doc Robbins that the toxicology report says the "ink gum" did not kill Fred.

Warrick looks under a microscope and finds that the material found on Fred's jacket was snakeskin. Grissom confirms this by adding that the toxicology report result shows that Fred was poisoned with snake venom. They visit Marty Gibson back at the car dealership and tell him snakeskin was found on his jacket. Warrick goes over the company's expense reports and finds that Marty charged the company for two dozen mice. When they ask Marty what he did with the mice, he shows them the venomous snakes he has for pets, as well as the mice he feeds it.

An animal expert in the lab informs Grissom that the snakeskin came from a diamondback rattlesnake. Grissom notes that Fred showed no puncture wounds, but she says Marty could have milked the snake since he clearly knows how to handle them. Grissom figures that the snake could have been milked and the venom brought to the office and put in Fred's coffee. She says she knows macho people who drink bits of snake venom and they are fine. However, since Fred had a stomach ulcer, the venom could have done him in. The expert says that since Fred showed no signs of tissue death, the venom did not come from the rattlesnake. Marty has two other snakes that could have been used for the venom, as their venom is neurotoxic and the test on Fred came back positive for alpha neurotoxins. Those toxins cause total paralysis, which explains why Fred ended up in the morgue the first time.

Greg tells Grissom and Warrick that the proteins in snake venom vary from species to species and even from snake to snake. The venom found in Fred didn't match any of the snakes that Marty owns. Warrick questions whether it was a coincidence that Marty owns venomous snakes and venom was found in Fred's system. Grissom says that a coincidence is a scientific anomaly; perhaps Marty got rid of the snake.

In Nancy Linden's house, a snake wrangler tells Grissom that Nancy called the police hysterical that a snake ate her dog. The snake is a monocled cobra, indigenous to southeast Asia. The wrangler asked Nancy where she got the snake from and she replied that a coworker asked her to "snakesit." Grissom guesses that it was Marty Gibson. Nancy, sitting crying on the couch, tells Grissom that Marty said he had a surefire way to win a trip to Cabo and that he would take her with him if she promised to watch the snake for a few days. She admits to Grissom that Marty used to be the "goodwill guy" - he had no client list of his own so he had to live off of hand-me-downs from other salesman and perform tasks for them like getting them coffee. Now that Fred is dead, Marty got to move up the ladder.

Grissom guesses that Marty, tired of getting coffee for Fred and getting bossed around, slipped the snake venom into Fred's coffee. As Marty is arrested, Grissom tells him that snake venom plus coffee lead them directly to him. Marty admits that he worked hard to get a desk on the second floor, only to get bossed around by Fred. He rants that Fred never threw him any clients and that opportunity knocked.
