Synopsis
The CSIs investigate when a casino employee is beaten and raped on her way home from work. The victim identifies her attacker, but the DNA evidence suggests that he is not the person responsible. Later, Grissom has to help out Sara, who ends up on the other side of the law when found but not charged for a DUI.

Plot
Victim: Linley Parker (alive)

On the case: Entire team

A female pit boss at the Palms casino leaves the casino and walks to her car before driving away. She's next seen bloody and partially clothed running through a wooded area. She makes her way to a backyard and bangs on a sliding glass door while yelling for help. A dog frightens her and she runs into the street before collapsing. Some time later, she's been prepped by paramedics for transport to Desert Palms Hospital. Grissom documents her injuries while Brass provides an update on neighborhood interviews. Grissom follows a blood trail and traces the victim's path through the neighborhood and wooded area to an abandoned car on the side of a road. The victim's wallet and ID are in the car along with money.

Nick joins Grissom at the car's location and notices that there are no skid marks and no signs of another vehicle. Grissom sees that the engine is still running and that there are no flat tires and wonders why the victim stopped. Meanwhile, the victim, Linley Parker, is processed at the hospital. A disturbed Sara offers to take the sexual assault kit to the lab in lieu of interviewing Linley. Catherine takes Linley's statement; she recounts her assault and rape clearly. While she is giving the statement, Grissom and Nick find all of the evidence on the side of the road to corroborate her story. Linley also remembers part of the rapist's license plate, the color of his car, and she is able to give a physical description to a facial composite artist.  At the lab, Sara's encouraged by Grissom to take some vacation time. She refuses, indicating she finds his recommendation hypocritical.

Catherine enters the partial plate number (4-4-6) that Linley remembers and finds that there are 5,018 registered license plates in Nevada with that combination. She is able to narrow the field down to 312 plates when she factors in Linley's recollection of a black SUV. Elsewhere, Greg stops Grissom and wants to know if he'll be able to work in the field permanently at some point; Grissom tells him that he can after he trains a replacement. Greg hands Grissom test results; the DNA collected off of Linley matches a rape-murder case from a year ago.

Warrick and Grissom go over the previous case - the rape and murder victim was 32-year old Emma Dobbins, who was found not far from where Linley was assaulted. Emma and Linley are both white and of similar ages; however, the physical connections stop there. A size nine shoe print was found at both scenes, and the immediate guess is that they were raped by the same person.

The sketch artist finishes her sketch with Linley's help. Using the facial composite and license plate information, Dr. Todd Coombs is identified as a suspect and brought in by Brass for questioning. Catherine notices a scratch on the front of Todd's car, which lines up with Linley's story that her car was hit from behind. At the station, Linley picks Todd out of a police lineup and Grissom collects a DNA sample from him. Comparisons of Todd's shoes and DNA to evidence from the crime scenes of both Linley Parker and Emma Dobbins results in no matches, however, the seminal DNA indicates that the rapist is possibly Todd's brother. Todd is released from custody and Catherine informs Linley, who remains sure of her lineup identification and fears retribution from Todd. Sara workups a family tree for Todd and the CSIs speak with three of his brothers, collecting DNA from all of them. The fourth brother, Kevin Coombs, cannot be found.

While at the lab, Catherine receives an urgent call from Linley that ends abruptly with sounds of a struggle and screams. Her car is found abandoned on Fremont Street with the window smashed; a piece of the broken window has some blood on it, which is likely from the attacker. Grissom notes that Catherine was on the phone with Linley when Linley was attacked; however, there is no sign of a cell phone in the car. The whereabouts of three Coombs brothers are confirmed, but Todd Coombs is said by his wife to be at the house company. Brass happens to drive by Coombs as he's vacuuming his car at a car wash and speaks to him briefly, but cannot search his vehicle without a warrant. After Todd leaves, Brass radios the lab, as he wants someone to retrieve everything that Todd vacuumed up. CSIs track the GPS on Linley's phone to an empty lot on the edge of town in a jacket taken by a feral dog. Her corpse is found in the same lot.

In autopsy, Catherine takes photos of Linley's body and tape lifts the body for evidence; she finds something that looks like a hair. Sara and Det. Vartann walk the property where Linley's body was discovered; Sara notes that the property belongs to the Coombs family. They find the fifth brother, Kevin Coombs, at his trailer home. He answers the door with a shotgun and is taken into custody. Back in autopsy, Doc Robbins tells Grissom that Linley's cause of death was asphyxia due to strangulation. He also says that Linley was raped again; she does have defensive wounds on her, indicating that she fought back. Meanwhile, at Kevin's, Sara finds a rusted Pontiac amongst old cars and car parts and remembers that the first victim, Emma Dobbins, owned the same car. She photographs the VIN number.

Det. Vartann interrogates Kevin, who is largely uncooperative. However, he does provide the knowledge that the government can watch you whenever and wherever they want after they have a sample of your DNA. Grissom meets Todd outside of the interrogation room, and Todd tells him that he's the only one in the family that understands Kevin. He maintains that Kevin is harmless and that he chooses to live off the grid and turn car wrecks taken from this brothers' garage into art. Grissom informs Todd that the VIN number from the Pontiac found in Kevin's yard belongs to a victim that was raped and killed by the same person who did the same to Linley. Additionally, Linley's body was found on Kevin's property. Todd simply replies that the CSIs have been wrong before.

Nick goes through the contents of the vacuum from the car wash and finds a label from a potted plant purchased at the house company, confirming Todd's alibi. Warrick walks in to assist and finds a lapel pin from the Palms casino amongst the contents. Nick says that a lot of people work on the Palms and that this doesn't necessarily connect Todd to the crime.

Catherine and Grissom look over Linley's crime scene photos and Grissom tells her that the blood recovered from Linley's smashed car window is a match to the semen from all of the rapes. This means that the DNA doesn't match Todd or any of his brothers. Greg interrupts and tells them that the hair Catherine lifted from Linley's body is a match to Todd. Grissom is unsure that Todd is the guy since the evidence never lies, but Catherine is all set to radio Brass and have him bring Todd back to the station.

Todd is brought back in for processing. Grissom has him strip down to his underwear so he can take photos and document any injuries. Todd explains that bruises on his wrists are from moving boxes. Grissom then notices a scar on Todd's lower back; Todd says that he was a bone marrow donor when his brother had leukemia. When Grissom takes a photo of the scar, a flash reveals a patter on Todd's back. He takes another photo and sees the same thing. Grissom has an officer turn off the lights and retrieves his ALS; he sees that Todd has V-shaped patterns up and down his back.

Grissom does some research and discovers that has a condition called Tetragametic chimerism, in which the embryos of fraternal twins collapse into one. As he goes through various photos of Todd's home office, he finds one that contains a chimera statuette. Grissom collects a blood sample from Todd in his holding cell. After Grissom reveals that he knows Todd's bone marrow donation to his brother failed, Todd acknowledges that he's aware of his condition: he has two completely different sets of DNA in his body. In the interrogation room, Todd admits his guilt to Brass while being video recorded. He claims that there are more than two victims, but this is never expounded on.

At the end of shift, Nick, Sara and Warrick are seen walking down the strip. Warrick invites them to a meal, but they turn him down. Sara congratulates Nick on his almost-promotion, telling him he deserves it. Nick asks her if it was hard for her to say, and she agrees that it was. Later, Grissom receives a call in his office. An officer discloses that Sara has been pulled over for a DUI. While her blood alcohol content is technically over the legal limit, the limit had been lowered recently and the officer cuts her a break by not booking her. Grissom arrives, holds a despondent Sara's hands, and tells her that he'll take her home.
