Synopsis
When the new sheriff is witness to a car bombing that kills an air marshal and two others, he puts pressure on Grissom to find the murderer. Nick puts the bomb back together, finding out it was a pipe bomb connected to to a timer in the dash board. Remains of the bomb lead Grissom, Catherine and Nick to a high school science fair. Meanwhile Warrick and Sara look into the death of the wife of a popular singer.

Plot
Victim: Adam Watson (deceased)

On the case: Catherine Willows, Gil Grissom, Nick Stokes, Jim Brass

Outside of the Orpheus hotel, a valet goes to get a bag out of the trunk of a car when the car explodes, killing him and the driver. Among the witnesses is Sheriff Rory Atwater, who was just leaving the hotel. Catherine and Grissom arrive and, as they go over the events with the sheriff, gunshots start ringing out causing everyone to take cover.

After the shots cease and the CSIs examine the crime scene, Grissom sees that the bag in the trunk had bullets in it. The heat from the explosion ignited the gunpowder, causing the bullets to explode. As Grissom looks over the car, he finds the driver's feet still on the floor in front of the seat. The VIN number is attached to the car. Catherine is placing evidence markers all around and finds a melted gun that she presumes belonged to the driver. Nick arrives and offers to start bagging evidence and separating out the bomb components.

In the CSI garage, an eager Greg offers to help Grissom examine the car. Grissom tells him that he found that the bomb was attached to the gas tank and asks Greg to find the initiation switch. Under the car, Greg finds a stray wire that leads to the center of the dashboard. Grissom surmises that the digital clock in the car was the switch and that it was time-activated. Meanwhile, Nick separates out the parts of the bomb and deduces that it was a pipe bomb initiated by a light bulb filament. Concerned that he has nothing to go to the press with, Sheriff Atwater asks Grissom for information about the bomber and his/her motive. Grissom replies that they're only learning about the bomb and that there is nothing distinctive about it like a signature.

Bobby Dawson tells Catherine that the melted gun she found was nondescript. There was a blue substance on it that he thinks was from a bag that melted in the explosion and he sent a sample of it to Trace. However, he informs Catherine that the bullets from the trunk of the car are unique - they are designed to enter a target but not exit it. He concludes that the victim of the explosion is likely a Federal Air Marshal, as these are the types of bullets that would be used on an airplane if it was being hijacked.

Brass speaks to the manager of the place the car was rented from. The manager confirms that the car was rented to Adam Watson, who was irate when he couldn't rent a compact car and flashed his air marshal badge to the manager. Adam chose the Camaro; the manager tells Brass that the car arrived on the lot at 9:31 PM and Adam drove it out nine minutes later. Brass relays this information to Grissom, but Grissom is puzzled. The bomb went off thirty minutes after Adam drove the car off the lot and it takes a lot longer than that to hard-wire a bomb. They guess that the bomb was already in the car when it was returned to the rental place, meaning that they need to find out who rented the car before Adam.

It is found that the previous renter of the Camaro was Roger Dunbar. Brass and some uniformed officers break down the door to Roger's apartment, but find nobody inside. The interior is barely decorated, with only an air mattress on the floor. Catherine and Grissom enter the house; Catherine finds a paper shredder with shreds inside, while Grissom collects a bloody band-aid from one of the garbage cans. There appear to be no signs of bomb-making materials. As Catherine examines some magazines on a table, she notices writing on one of the covers. She dusts the cover and sees that the writing reads "Dr. Amerian, 4:00 PM" and that the date is today.

Roger is found and brought in for questioning, upset that he was pulled out of his dentist's office and accused of planting a car bomb. After a few questions, he refuses to answer further without an attorney present. Catherine has him remove his clothes as evidence. Meanwhile, Nick discovers that the explosive used was ammonium perchlorate (rocket fuel) and the GCMS identified the other half as gasoline. He points out to Grissom that ammonium perchlorate can be purchased at any chemical supply store, so this doesn't necessarily narrow down the list of suspects. Sheriff Atwater interrupts with a few questions, one of which asks why a bomb tied to a digital clock would go off at the wrong time. Nick shows him that there was a fray in the wire, which would cause the bomb to go off at any time making it unpredictable.

Lab results show that Roger had rocket fuel on his t-shirt. When questioned about this, Roger tells Catherine and Brass that he was helping his son, Timmy, with a science project for Mesquite Elementary School; he built a volcano and some of the chemicals spilled onto his shirt. There is still visible confusion about his apartment, and Roger explains that he needs his space from his family, so he rents an apartment and tells them that he is out of town on business. Catherine and Brass get Roger's "real" home address and she and Grissom pay his family a visit. Inside the Dunbar house, they find a model volcano on the dining room table along with three chemicals, one of which is ammonium perchlorate. Catherine questions Roger's wife, Beth, who says that Roger is largely inept and didn't help build the volcano. Beth informs Catherine that Roger works for the state department and once accidentally revealed that he actually worked for the CIA.

Grissom brings the model volcano back to the lab as evidence. Nick tells him that the tool marks on the bomb's end cap are consistent with pliers or a vice grip; however, there was no vice grip present in the Dunbar's toolbox. Grissom removes the end cap used in the volcano and compares it with the bomb's end cap; the tool marks are completely different, meaning that the tool used to build the bomb was not used in the volcano.

Catherine speaks to Ronnie Litre about the paper shreds found in Roger's secret apartment. There are five bills laid out on the table and two of them are credit card bills. However, one of the bills is addressed to Roger A. Dunbar, while the other is for Roger B. Dunbar. There are three different gas bills - one for the apartment, one for his house in Mesquite, and another for a house in Henderson. Greg interrupts and informs Catherine that the blood found on the band-aid in Roger's apartment came back as female with seven alleles in common with Roger, indicating a relative. Since Catherine was told that Roger's parents are deceased and that he is an only child, this means he has a daughter. It appears he's living a secret life with a family in Henderson.

Catherine and Grissom pay Debbie Dunbar a visit. Catherine shows her a photo of Roger and Debbie confirms that Roger is her husband. They tell Debbie that Roger is in police custody, which is why he has not been in contact with her recently. Grissom asks Debbie if she has a daughter; she replies that her name is Amy. Inside the house, they find a model volcano identical to the one they found in the other house. Debbie tells Catherine and Grissom that Roger built the volcano and used the pair of vice grips that they discovered.

Under interrogation, Roger admits to having two wives, saying he spends the weekdays with Debbie and Amy and the weekends with Beth and Timmy. He rented the apartment to give himself a little personal time every once in a while, and tells Catherine and Brass that Amy had given him the bloody band-aid to throw away and he did so in the apartment. When pressed, he admits to borrowing pliers from Beth's house in Mesquite and using them to build Amy's volcano in Henderson, knowing how to do so after watching Beth build the first one. Roger realizes he messed up when he remembers that he never returned the pliers to Beth in Mesquite.

Catherine goes to Beth's house and lines up the tool marks from the bomb with the tool marks left on a garden hose pipe that she had fixed the week before. Beth is arrested and brought in for questioning. In interrogation, she admits to Catherine and Grissom that she suspected Roger was seeing another woman. However, she snapped when she realized he actually had a whole other family. She built the bomb and put it in the rental car, admitting that it was supposed to go off at 8:30 PM when Roger was on his way to the airport. However, it went off later and killed three innocent people. Grissom asks Beth why she chose a bomb as the murder weapon; she replies that it's not much harder to build a bomb than it is to build a volcano.


