Synopsis
An Amber Alert is sent out when a young girl, Alicia Perez, is kidnapped. Meanwhile, Catherine has to deal with Lindsey, who was caught hitchhiking.

Plot
Victim: Alicia Perez (missing)

On the case: Entire team

Outside of St. Andrew's School, Alicia Perez's mother waits for her after the school day ends. Sybil Perez asks a nun where her daughter is, but the nun replies that Alicia wasn't in school all day. Sybil then gets a call from her other daughter, April - 13-year old Alicia has been kidnapped. She drives to the convenience store where the kidnapping took place and slaps April for letting this happen.

The CSIs arrive on the scene. April tells Brass that Alicia's life wasn't great and that the two of them didn't see each other often, so she would sometimes play hooky and spend the day together. While April was in the store, Alicia changed into her school uniform to make it look she was in school all day. April says that Alicia was kidnapped by a black man with a beard driving a black (or dark blue) Buick. Meanwhile, Grissom is taking photos of April's car when he is approached by Sybil and Alicia's father, Carlos. He tells them that they're doing everything they can to find Alicia. Grissom then notices some blood on Sybil's shirt, which Sybil claims is from a nosebleed. He tells Sybil that the shirt will have to be collected as evidence, and an angry and distraught Sybil takes the shirt off and throws it at Grissom.

An AMBER Alert is issued for Alicia. Nick and Warrick work the convenience store parking lot, where Nick reveals that he failed his firearms qualification. Nick wonders how someone as old as Alicia was lured by a kidnapper; Warrick figures that the kidnapper pretended he was lost and snatched Alicia when she got too close to the car. Catherine adds that Alicia was probably hit, as well. Grissom walks up and informs Nick that he can't be out in the field since he failed the firearms qualification; in fact, just carrying a weapon is a violation. Nick adheres the rules and says that he'll help from the lab. Meanwhile, Catherine gets a call and leaves the scene with Nick, as the call is about Lindsey. Elsewhere, in the convenience store, Brass talks to the store clerk. The clerk says that he was checking April out; then April started screaming and ran. He claims that he never saw Alicia or the car that she was kidnapped in. The clerk adds that there are five security cameras inside of the store; however, the cameras outside of the store are all fakes.

In the police station, an officer tells Catherine that Lindsey was caught hitchhiking. Hitchhiking is the third strike in Catherine's eyes, as Lindsey has also been talking back to teachers and has had dropping grades. Lindsey suggests that she should strip like her mother used to. This results in an argument with Lindsey storming out. Elsewhere in the lab, Warrick is going over the contents of Alicia's backpack. Greg and new DNA lab hire Mia Dickerson enter. Warrick asks Greg what's missing; when Greg doesn't know, he says that Alicia supposedly changed out of her clothes and into her school clothes. However, there are no street clothes to be found. Warrick gives Sybil's bloody shirt to Mia for DNA extraction.

In the Perez house, Brass interviews Carlos and Sybil. They were unaware that Alicia had been skipping school to spend time with April and tell Brass that April had been kicked out of the house. She had had problems with drugs and the police and had also spent time in juvenile lockup for heroin possession with an intent to distribute. Meanwhile, Grissom and Sara are looking through Alicia's room. On Alicia's computer, Sara finds that Alicia visited an organ transplant website. She then finds a notebook where Alicia has written down the name "Jimmy Jones" several times accompanied by hearts. On the underside of the bed linens, Grissom finds the words "I hate mom & dad." He is interrupted by Alicia's brother, Daniel. Daniel recognizes the name Jimmy Jones and says that he was a boy from Alicia's school. He tells Grissom and Sara that Alicia was a giver ever since birth. Grissom then notices that Daniel has a nosebleed. Daniel excuses himself and tells them to read Alicia's diary that she kept under her bed. Sara opens it up and reads and entry Alicia wrote about having surgery; this seems to connect with the organ transplant web search. Back in the living room, Carlos and Sybil tell Brass that Daniel has failing kidneys and that Alicia is his matching donor. Without Alicia, Daniel will die.

Catherine and Brass question Jimmy Jones. Jimmy tells them that Alicia was a pretty good soccer player, but quit the team before she got cut. She would miss practice a lot because she was always going to the doctor. Alicia had told Jimmy about her kidney and the fact that she was saving Daniel's life; however, Jimmy says that Alicia seemed quite upset about doing so. Alicia had told Jimmy that she had no life and never would. Jimmy tells Brass that, on their way to school, they would pass by a black man with a beard and mustache who was about 30 years old. The man, who seems to match the description of the kidnapper, would be out for a jog or a run; however, he was dressed in velour and always on the phone. Jimmy says that the guy gave him the creeps.

In the lab, Nick has Alicia's neighborhood and walking route to school up on the computer, as well as the location of the convenience store. He shows Grissom and Warrick the map of all registered sex offenders in the vicinity and there are surprisingly a lot of them. Nick narrows the search down to Tier 2 and Tier 3 sex offenders, as Grissom notes that they would be more likely to plan an abduction and find the privacy for sexual assault and murder. They find a Tier 2 offender named Marlon Wayward who lives in Alicia's neighborhood and fits the description that Jimmy gave to Brass.

Marlon answers the door at his house and Grissom notices a cut on Marlon's chin from shaving. Brass speaks to Marlon outside while Grissom and Sara search the inside of the house. Inside, Grissom finds a jacket on a hanger with a hair sticking out from it. Sara finds the presence of semen on bedsheets, as well as a pair of boy's underwear. Grissom finds Marlon's phone; the phone contains pictures of Alicia and Jimmy as they were walking to school. Outside, Marlon tells Brass that his black Buick is in the Tangiers parking lot because it wouldn't start. Marlon is arrested and brought in for questioning. In the interrogation room, Marlon recognizes Alicia from her photo; however, he tells Grissom and Brass that he was looking at Jimmy. He adds that he bought the pair of underwear himself and would use Jimmy's photo as a "release." Marlon tells Grissom that he has a disease, but Grissom corrects him by saying it's a compulsion.

Warrick visits Greg and Mia in the DNA lab and finds out that the semen on the underwear belonged to Marlon and that the only DNA on the underwear was Marlon's, as well. Marlon is therefore ruled out as a suspect. Warrick then receives a call: Alicia's body has been found. Catherine, Grissom and Warrick meet Brass in a field where Alicia's body has been wrapped up tightly in a bloody blanket. Catherine notes that Alicia's face is covered, meaning that the killer probably expressed remorse or guilt. She also notices that Alicia has been redressed and that her panties are missing. Grissom has Catherine and Warrick search the surrounding area; Warrick finds a shoeprint and photographs it. Alicia's liver temperature is 90 degrees and David Phillips tells Grissom that it should be higher; Grissom figures the weather has something to do with the odd reading.

In autopsy, Grissom takes photos of Alicia's body while David Phillips discusses his findings. There are no signs of sexual assault and Alicia has no defensive wounds on her body. Grissom notes that there was blood on the blanket; since Alicia has no wounds, the blood could belong to the killer. David flips Alicia's body over to reveal two long parallel bruises on her back. Grissom mentions that Alicia's body wasn't laying on top of anything at the scene. As he goes to take another photo of the body, Grissom stops, looks at the body, and shakes his head.

Catherine sits down next to an exhausted Grissom and tells him about Lindsey's hitchhiking attempt. Grissom replies that if people knew what was out there hunting them, they would never leave the house. He suggests to Catherine that she prepare Lindsey for the outside world without scaring her. Grissom then visits Doc Robbins, who shows Grissom Alicia's x-ray. Alicia has pinpoint holes in both shoulders from donating bone marrow to her brother. Grissom mentions Daniel's symptoms to Doc Robbins; the doc believes the symptoms point to acute leukemia. The doc says that Alicia's cause of death was cardiopulmonary arrest and that the only thing in her stomach was a milky liquid. Alicia's time of death is put at between midnight and 8:00 AM the day of her kidnapping, meaning that her sister was lying about the abduction.

Brass interrogates April and tells her that her story has a lot of holes - Alicia was already dead when the AMBER alert was issued and there were no signs of sexual assault. He tells her that filing a false AMBER alert is 1-4 years in prison and murder will get her either life in prison or the death penalty, depending on whether the death was accidental or not. April vehemently denies killing her sister, but Brass knows she was in on it since she lied about the abduction. Brass points out that Daniel was the center of attention since he's sick and that Alicia was his savior, meaning April didn't fit in with the family. Maybe she killed Alicia, which in turn would lead to Daniel dying and making April the family's focus again? April denies this, as well. Brass wonders if April is on drugs again and whether they should test her blood.

Catherine and Grissom go over the Perez family medical records and have them outlined on a chart. Daniel was diagnosed with relapsing acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) when he was ten years old, and Alicia was conceived in vitro to be his genetic match. Alicia had a blood transfusion when she was four and donated bone marrow when she was seven. Daniel relapsed, which is why Alicia donated bone marrow a second time. Grissom states that Alicia was a DNA factory. Catherine is stopped by Sybil Perez in the station hallway, and Catherine tells her that April will be released on bail and that she is refusing to talk about what happened to Alicia. Sybil laments not giving enough attention to April, but Catherine admonishes her for using Alicia only as a means to help Daniel. Catherine tells her that she put one child over another, but Sybil replies that she did what she had to do. Sybil guesses that Catherine doesn't have children; Catherine says she has a daughter, and Sybil calls her out for working nights and not spending time with her. Alicia's life might not have been easy, Sybil says, but at least she knew her daughter.

In the lab, Mia tells Grissom that the blood on Sybil's shirt matches the blood that was found on the blanket and that the blood was Alicia's. He is surprised that the blood isn't menstrual and that the amount of blood present would suggest injury or trauma. Despite Mia's insistence that she was thorough when she ran the tests, Grissom asks her to run them again. Elsewhere in the lab, Greg and Sara go through April's laundry and garbage. Greg finds a crumpled up piece of paper with Mapquest directions from Marlon Waylord's house to the convenience store. Down in the morgue, Catherine shows Lindsey the body of a dead 23-year old female as a way to scare Lindsey straight. Doc Robbins enters and berates Catherine for this decision, but Catherine tells him that this doesn't concern him.

In the A/V lab, Archie does a reverse lookup on the Mapquest search and finds that the account used for the search belongs to Sybil. Sara, Warrick and Brass visit the Perez residence again. Brass presents a warrant and asks where Daniel is; Sybil replies that Daniel is at church. Inside the house, Sara photographs a laptop, then finds a cabinet where various medications are stored. There is Oxycodone in Daniel's name, while Alicia's name is on bottles of Diazepam. Sara photographs the bottles, as well as a whiteboard medication calendar. Elsewhere, Warrick finds a pair of work boots that belong to Carlos; they have the same tread pattern that he photographed earlier at the crime scene. In the bedroom, Warrick bags a bloody handkerchief and finds blue fibers on the bed seemingly consistent with the blanket Alicia's body was wrapped in. Sara enters and tells Warrick about the medications she found - Daniel's Oxycodone was for pain, but Alicia's Diazepam was an anti-depressant. She guesses that Alicia's parents didn't want her complaining while her body was used for Daniel's health. Outside, Nick (who has passed his firearms qualification test) finds a tripod in the trunk of Carlos's car. He notes to Sara and Warrick that when folded up, the tripod's legs match the lividity marks found on Alicia's back.

Brass interrogates Carlos and Sybil separately. Carlos admits to being guilty and wanting to protect his family. Brass has a longer conversation with Sybil and presents his hypothesis: Sybil helped move Alicia's body and came up with the idea to remove the underwear. She then contacted April and they used the sex offenders registry to frame Marlon. He guesses that after being constantly used as a means to get Daniel better, Alicia finally stood up to her mother and said no. Alicia wanted to keep her kidney and she wanted to live a normal life. He guesses that Alicia wanted out, but Sybil wouldn't let her. She slipped Alicia too much Oxycodone, then panicked and came up with the kidnapping story. Sybil says that Alicia loved Daniel and that Alicia would never forgive herself if Daniel died and she did nothing about it. Brass adds that the slap at the convenience store was a nice touch.

Warrick tells Grissom that the blue fibers he found were consistent with the blanket Alicia was wrapped in and that the work boots were consistent with the shoe prints found at the crime scene. Greg interjects and says that he retested the bloody shirt and blanket, and that the blood still matches Alicia. He tells Grissom to accept change and stop second-guessing Mia's procedures, as she is doing a great job. Grissom agrees and apologizes. Greg adds that the blood on the handkerchief found in the Perez bedroom also matches Alicia. Grissom then comes to a realization.

Grissom visits the church where Daniel is. Daniel tells Grissom that he realizes how lucky he is - he knows how and when he's going to die, while most people don't. He says that Alicia was never scared and that she never gave up on herself or him. Daniel recounts making his parents swear that after his last relapse, they wouldn't put Alicia through the medical procedures again. However, after Daniel's kidneys started failing, his parents said that their promise only related to the cancer, not the kidneys. Daniel admits to putting an end to Alicia's pain by drugging her milk. Her blood was in Daniel's veins, which is why the blood results kept coming back to Alicia. When he wrapped Alicia's body in the blanket, his nose bled onto it.

Grissom asks Daniel why he didn't just take his own life instead of Alicia's and he replies that suicide is an unforgiveable sin in the eyes of God. God forgiving murder won't keep Daniel out of jail, Grissom says. However, Daniel says that he will be dead in six months before there's even a trial. He thanks Grissom for being the only person in Alicia's life that only thought of her. Daniel tells Grissom that while Grissom may not believe in God, he's doing God's work.
